doc: initial version of Solana integration (#1)
eigerco/amplifier-advisory-committee: src/chains/solana/PROPOSAL.md

### Axelar Integration Components

- **External Gateway Contracts:** There will be implemented custom gateway contracts for Solana, allowing seamless cross-chain messaging and asset bridging. These contracts will utilize Solana’s token program (SPL tokens) to facilitate asset interoperability, enabling users to transfer tokens securely between different chains.
- **Amplifier Contracts:** The Axelar Virtual Machine (AVM) will be used to deploy amplifier contracts for efficient cross-chain execution. These contracts will handle routing and validation of interchain messages to and from Solana, ensuring secure communication between networks.
- **ITS Contracts:** Interchain Token Standard (ITS) contracts will be adapted to support SPL token transfers, enabling cross-chain assets to be issued and redeemed on Solana with minimal friction.

> - **Governance Contract:** The governance module allows decisions taken on the Axelar network to be propagated and executed on the different integrated chains, giving a chance (by timelock) to each chain maintainer to prepare for it's execution. So the governance module acts as a "approved proposal's forwarder" which is connected to the Axelar governance infrastructure via GMP messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Governance Contract:** The governance module allows decisions taken on the Axelar network to be propagated and executed on the different integrated chains, giving a chance (by timelock) to each chain maintainer to prepare for its execution. So the governance module acts as an "approved proposal's forwarder" which is connected to the Axelar governance infrastructure via GMP messages.
```
